XTHEME SUITE RELEASE 3.0	-	13 November 2020

VERSIONS
    dcm.sh:VERSION="dcm 4.0 2021-05-13 greywolf@starwolf.com";
    fxdemo.sh:VERSION="fxdemo 4.0 2021-05-13 greywolf@starwolf.com";
    palmap.pl:my($VERSION)	= 'palmap 4.0 2021-05-13 greywolf@starwolf.com';
    xc.sh:VERSION="xc 4.0 2021-05-13 greywolf@starwolf.com";
    xp.pl:my($VERSION) = 'xp 4.0.1 2022-01-25 greywolf@starwolf.com';
    xtc.sh:VERSION="xtc 4.0 2021-05-13 greywolf@starwolf.com"
    xtheme.sh:VERSION="xtheme 5.1 greywolf@starwolf.com 2023-05-10 12:32 PDT";

xtheme is a suite of programs for tricking out your terminal emulator, be it
xterm, urxvt, rxvt, or mintty (cygwin).

THE PROGRAMS

xtc:	X Terminal Color Capability test

	Prints out a few lines of text in an illustrative manner, showing
	what the low preset 16 colours look like.  These will change as
	you run any of the other programs.  If run with the '-a' option,
	xtc will also show representations of the following terminal 
	attributes as baked into your terminal emulator:

	0 - normal	1 - bold
	2 - dim		3 - italic
	4 - underline	5 - blink
	6 - unknown	7 - inverse
	8 - hidden	9 - overstrike
	21 - double underline	
	
xc:	X Color changer

	xc takes an argument which maps to a set of colours to be applied.
	It affects the default foreground, background, pointer, pointer
	background, and cursor colours.

	OPTIONS:
	-l	list schemes
	-f	use an alternate colour file
	-r	random
	-v	print what we are using

	A set of color mappings can be found in lib/xtheme/xtcolors.

xp:	X Palette changer

	xp takes an argument which maps to a set of colours to apply to
	the 'lower 16' colours of the emulator's palette, as well as the
	colours represented by bold, underline, blink, reverse, and italics.
	It tries to be smart and change them all simultaneously.

	OPTIONS:
	-l	list palette entries
	-m	iterative (mintty) mode - change them one at a time
		(required for mintty)


	A set of colour palette mappings can be found in lib/xtheme/xpalette.

	BUGS:
	
	There is no list function implemented at this time.

	urxvt does not respond to the colour changes of the attributes.

xtheme:	X Themer

	xtheme takes an argument which maps to a color set and a palette,
	and calls xc and xp accordingly.  This is the program you will
	probably use most often in changing up your xterm.

	OPTIONS:
	-l	list available themes
	-m	pass the -m flag to xp (for mintty)
	-o	alias for -m, as the '-o' flag used to mean 'one-by-one'
	-r	pick a random theme
	-v	print version and exit
	-C	column mode listing (implies -l); default if stdout
		is a terminal (a la ls(1));
	-1	single column listing (implies -l); default if stdout
		is not a terminal (a la ls(1));
	-L cat	list only themes belonging to category {cat} (implies -l)
	-t N	theme a terminal at a different tty/pty
		(may be used more than once).  The parameter N specified
		will be sought at /dev/N, /dev/ptyN, /dev/pty/N, and
		/dev/ttyN.


	A set of X Terminal theme descriptions can be found in
	lib/xtheme/xthemes.

monogen: Monochrome palette generator

	monogen takes a tag and a full-white value on the command line,
	runs some predetermined value calculations to generate the
	scale between black (000000) and the given full-white value.

	Improvements are planned for this utility.

palmap:  Palette mapper

	palmap takes a series of entry:colormap parameters on
	the command line and manipulates each entry (a number) according
	to a colormap (string) specification file to be found in
	lib/xtheme/cmap.  Each file consists of lines of colours in
	rrggbb format, one per line.  These are then looped ad infinitum
	until the process is interrupted.

	OPTIONS

	-l	list available colormaps

	COLOURMAP ENTRY CODES AND CORRESPONDENT PALETTE CELLS
		COLOURS
	0 - "black"		 8 - "dark grey"
	1 - "red"		 9 - "bright red"
	2 - "green"		10 - "bright green"
	3 - "yellow"		11 - "bright yellow"
	4 - "blue"		12 - "bright blue"
	5 - "purple"		13 - "magenta"
	6 - "turquoise"		14 - "cyan"
	7 - "light grey"	15 - "white"
		ATTRIBUTES
	16 - "bold"		21 - "blink"
	18 - "dim"		23 - "inverse"
	19 - "italic"		24 - "hidden"
	20 - "underline"	25 - "overstrike"
		OTHER COLOUR CELLS
	26 - "foreground"	27 - "cursor"
	28 - "background"

	A set of colour map files may be found in lib/cmap/*.cm

dcm:	Dynamic Colour Mapper

	dcm allows one to construct dynamic colour map
	references in a slightly more manageable fashion.
	The files consist of cell=map entries, one per line.
	The quoted values listed above for palmap are converted
	to their respective numeric codes.  A hash sign is
	considered a comment.

	dcm will take a parameter as a dynamic map file, and
	then background the palmap process, keeping track of
	it on a per-terminal basis.

	OPTIONS

	-d	Specify the delay between cell map changes.

	-k	kill the currently running dcm and reset the
		terminal map to a standard theme.

	-l	list available mappings.

	-r	kill and restart with the chosen mapping.

	-R	kill and restart with the current mapping.

	A set of sample colour map theme files may be found in
	lib/dmap/*.dcm.
	
THE DATA FILES

xtcolors:	 basic xterm schemes

	foreground, background,	pointer, cursor.  
	Used by the 'xc' program.

	FORMAT:
	schemename fgcolor bgcolor ptrcolor cursorcolor categories

	Lines beginning with # are ignored.


xpalette:	colour cell mappings not covered by xtcolors.

	Used by the 'xp' program.

	FORMAT:
	palname black red green brown blue purple turquoise ltgrey
		dkgrey orange lime gold ltblue magenta cyan white
		bold underline blink reverse italic

	Fields are blank separated.
	Only the first line is required.
	Lines beginning with # are ignored.
	The next entry begins at the next line which does not
	begin with whitespace or a #.


xthemes:	maps a label to an xtcolor map and a palette map

	used by the 'xtheme' program.

	FORMAT:
	themename	xc-label	xpalette-label

	Lines beginning with # are ignored.


cmap/*.cm:	Dynamic colourmap definition files

	Used by the 'cmap' program.

	Each file contains lines of rrggbb colour values.
	The more lines, the richer the map.

dmap/*.dcm:	Dynamic palette colour rotation files

	Used by the 'dcm' program.

	Each file contains lines of colorcell=colourmap which
	dcm translates into a set of parameters to pass off
	to the 'cmap' program.
